Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn
the scanf function in C programming
So in many situations the program will need to take data
from the user as a very simple example
Let's say we have a calculator programme and if you
want to find the sum or difference or product etc.
You must provide the data to the program. ie., if you
you want to find 10 + 20 then you must give
10 and 20 to the programme for the calculation and
when the C programme needs to get input from the
user we should use scanf function now
This is the syntax of scanf function and we
need to specify the format that is the data type
of the data to be received
We call it the format specifier and the format specifier
must be enclosed in double quotes and after that put
a comma and specify the address of variable where we
want our data to be stored and at the end
add a Semi Colon and the Function scanf is
a part of the header file
stdio.h
So whenever you want to use scanf function
You must include stdio.h
header file
Now let us discuss about the address of a variable
So we want to specify the address in a scanf
function
So how to get that address of the variable?
So see this example
So when we declare a variable like this we have
int var = 10
So an integer variable var will be created at some
address and value here will be 10 since we have initialised
it
So this 22f34e is where this variable
is created so that will be its address
And we can always access the address using &
operator
So when we write var it will return 10 and when you write
&var It will return 22f34e which
is its address. Now let us see a programme to print values
of var and &var. So first
We're declaring var initialized to 10 and now we
print var using print function and it will be printing 10
And now we are printing the value of &var
and %x used to print the address in
hexa decimal format and it will be printing the address
of var which is 22f34e
So when you're using scanf you have to specify
the address of variable and not the name of variable
Now let us see an example program
So we have the main function and we declare age
So an integer variable age is created at address 1024 and
next we have another declaration so a floating point variable
weight is created at address 2024 & now we asked the
user to provide the values for age and weight using
printf function and now we want to read the data
So remember the syntax of scanf function first is write
scanf and inside parenthesis the format specifier enclosed in
double quotes and a comma and the address of variable
We are going to read 2 data one is integer
and next is floating point So %d and %f
And now we want to store the first value to
variable age
So it's address &age
And for the second &weight. Now it is read
by the programme and stored to these variables
Now let us print the age and weight and the
result will be 10 and 20.000 Now let us discuss
about the return value of scanf, it returns the
number of items which were successfully read and here the
program read two items so here the return value will
be 2
So that's all and thank you for watching this video